Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to implement the necessary mouse events to complete the functionality
of this project.
All right, so before going forward, we need to select the slider, so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to say consed slider and we are going to grab it through the query selector.
And the slider has a class, which is container.
And now I want to create a variable which is called is down.
And later on we are going to change the values because according to this is down, we are going to implement
an if statement.
So initially the is down.
It means that the mouse is down or the user has clicked or I shouldn't say click because that is the
click event.
But that's that's actually what happens when Mouse is down.
OK, and I'm going to initialize a variable called Start X, which which is going to tell us exactly
where the user has clicked and how much the user is moving from one side to the next site.
And we are also grab the scroll left and we are just going to initialize we are not going to declare
these variables.
So first off, let's grab our slider and let's say at event listener.
So first things first.
What I want to do is I want to implement this functionality.
Whenever the user presses the mouse down, we can see that we go into this cursor grabbing state.
And when the user leaves the cursor or this mouse up, we go back.
So this is the first functionality that I want to implement.
So the event is going to be mouse down, let's create a callback function and we are going to pass in
the event object as a parameter.
And whenever the user mouse is down, we are going to say is down is now true.
Right.
And we are going to grab our slider and we are going to go into classes.
And from then in there we are going to add a class.
What is the class?
The class is active, so we should have some styling for that active class, which is right here.
So whenever the cursor is in the active class, the cursor itself is going to change from pointer to
grabbing.
All right.
So I you can see that the cursor is grabbing.
But there even though I have released the mouse, the mouse up event is still yet to be created.
So if I go ahead and create that, then we can see that whenever we release the mouse, the mouse should
return back to its original state.
All right.
So let's come here and I'm going to say Slider, Dot and Eventless Center.
And in here I'm going to say mouse up.
So when the mouse is up, you are going to run and an inventive mouse up.
And let's create a callback function here.
So now when the mouse is up, the is down is no longer true because it is not down, it is up, so is
down is false.
And we are going to say ups not in here and not going to grab our slider, what am I doing?
And we are going to say classless.
And from the class, we are going to remove the act of class because when the active classes added it
is grabbing.
When the active class is removed, it is not grabbing anymore.
So grabbing, not grabbing, grabbing, not grabbing C..
So this was the first functionality that I wanted to implement.
The second functionality is a bit like difficult to explain, but I'm going to try my best.
So whenever I click here we can see that we are indeed is down state and is down is true.
If I come outside this gallery, we can see that we have this not allowed.
Right.
And if I release the mouse there, we can see we return back to to to the cursor, to the cursor value
that we had.
And if I come down, we can see that now we are we are basically back to normal because is down is false.
Whenever we the mouse leaves the slider.
Right.
And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the mouse leave event.
And I just commented it out in my other screen.
And you just saw The Flash, which I saved.
So now I'm going to click and I'm going to go up and I'm going to release it there.
It returns back.
But whenever I come back to this container, we can see that the mouse is still down.
So we need a mouse leave event as well.
I'm going to go one more time.
So let's let's zoom out.
So when I click here inside this and I go up and I release it outside the container, of course, nothing
happens here.
But if I return back to the container, we can see that we are already in the in the active state.
What is the active state?
The active state is when the cursor is grabbing.
See, this is this is kind of like a bug.
We don't want to do this.
And now I'm going to go ahead and comment in the mouse mouse leaf and now I'm going to grab it, go
outside the container, leave it there, come back.
Nothing happens.
Right.
So I want to do this as well.
All right.
Slider and Eventless Center.
So when the mouse leaves what?
The container.
I want to run a function.
What is the function going to do?
The function is going to say that is down is no longer true.
It is false, not false.
False.
And the slider dart at a dart class list from there.
What I want to do, I want to remove when this event is fired, I want to remove the active clause.
Right.
So whenever we do this, I just showed you what happens.
And after this, what I want to do here in this video is I want to know exactly what I want to find
where the click is.
So now let's go ahead and let's see.
That's why we created this start.
So I'm going to go into this mouse down and I'm going to say.
Start X should be equal to idot page X, I'm just going to say page X and I'm going to save it.
Now we don't know what this idot page s, OK, we know e what what the E as we have talked about it
a lot.
But what about this page?
So before doing that, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to cancel log this to you.
So we have our event object now.
This event is going to be fired.
Whenever we click inside this container, so I'm going to zoom out a bit more.
So there is an extra space, so there is extra space for our I'm just going to go to this extent so
there is extra space for the console.
So if I click here, we can see the event has been created.
So the page X is going to give us the accordionists where the click has been happened.
So if I click here.
OK, so if I click here, let's go ahead and let's see the page X, we can see that the page has added
to because the distance from this offset top all the way to here is 82, OK?
And it is also going to give a sorry, sorry.
That is not the distance that is projects.
So distance from here to the edge of this container is 82 pixels.
This is going to be very much better visible if I just put it down.
So because we are working in this direction.
So let's go ahead and trash this.
So if I click here now, when I click here, it should be like zero one or like two or three.
Very small value because this is the start of the container.
OK, but when I come here into page X, we can see it's says 442.
And why is that?
Because it is for from this age of this, the screen all the way to the edge of this container is almost
440 pixels.
442 is where we clicked.
And if I click here, we can see that this value has been increasing.
The reason that I'm sure it is 1056, the reason that I'm showing you this is this is the offset value.
This is not the value that we want.
We want to know exactly where we clicked.
But when I click, for example, here, for example, if I click here, this should be like 20, 30
pixels, not more than that, but it's just 408 like eighty seven.
Right.
So we need to make sure that this value is accurate.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to remove this console coming this back end and I'm going to I'm
going to subtract the offset left of the slider from this value.
All right.
So before subtracting that, let's go ahead and cancel it.
I'm going to subtract it, and that's going to be it for this video.
So we are going to say slider, dot, offset.
Aref said, left at Servet, and when I click, we can see it's 439, so if I click right here, we
can see it's still 400 because the distance from here all the way to here, it's four hundred and thirty
nine.
If I click, it is still a four hundred and thirty nine.
But if I zoom back in, zoom back in tower one hundred percent and bring this up and now let's try it.
And now if I click here it is 60 pixels.
So we need to subtract the value of the page from the 60 pixels to be able to get exactly where it is
that we have clicked.
So I'm going to grab the slider X and I'm going to a slider and I'm going to say minus this value.
And now let's go ahead and let's comment.
Let's consulates start X.
And so now if I click, we should be able to see very small value.
It is one.
So it is 369.
It is seven forty seven.
Remember that the width of this container is 400.
So whenever we get towards the end of the container we should get towards for fourteen hundred.
If I click it's is thirteen ninety six.
So at this point we have successfully selected or mapped to where the user has clicked.
Of course this value is in the horizontal in the extraction because this gallery is horizontal gallery
scroller.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.